## Header
This is the course header. This will be added on top of every page. Go to [DoDAO.io](https://www.dodao.io) to know more.

---

## Intro to Lending & Borrowing


## Lending and Borrowing Basics

### Lending
* The act of allowing someone else or another entity to use the lender's assets.
* The lender gets compensated for his contribution in the form of interest.
* Lending helps prevent the value of assets (especially money) from degrading over time.
* Returns on lending to banks are fixed and stable, But minuscule.

### Borrowing
* Borrowing is the act of receiving something from someone under the agreement that the asset or an agreed-upon equivalent of the asset borrowed will be returned after a certain period. 
* The agreed-upon equivalent against which a loan is taken is called collateral.
* The purpose of borrowing is to use an asset you do not currently have by producing something you already own as security of repayment of the borrowed asset.
* Borrowing from banks requires a good credit score to get a decent offer on loan.

### Advantages of Lending and borrowing
* Lending and borrowing facilitate the flow of resources from the people with surplus resources who do not have a use for them and people without a particular resource in necessary amounts. This trading, of time value of assets benefits both the parties.
* Lending prevents the devaluation of money held by a person by generating value via interests.
* Lending ensures the circulation of resources held in surplus which otherwise would be locked up with one person/ entity and unusable.
* Lending and borrowing play a crucial role in the ecosystem of small businesses. Providing them with resources they otherwise would not have to sustain their business initially.


    


---
## Evaluation





##### The act of allowing someone else to use ones assets is called
  

- [x]  Lending
- [ ]  Borrowing
- [ ]  Banking
- [ ]  Loaning





##### Which of the following is an advantage of Lending and Borrowing?  

- [x]  Lending and borrowing facilitate the flow of resources from the people with surplus resources who do not have a use for them and people without a particular resource in necessary amounts. This trading, of time value of assets benefits both the parties.
- [ ]  Lending and borrowing reduces the net revenue made by businesses
- [ ]  It causes debt-trap.
- [x]  Lending ensures the circulation of resources held in surplus which otherwise would be locked up with one person/ entity and unusable.





##### The act of receiving assets against collateral produced as security for repayment is called
  

- [ ]  Lending
- [ ]  Banking
- [x]  Borrowing
- [ ]  None of these





##### Lending and Borrowing can be done via
  

- [ ]  Banks
- [ ]  Decentralized Finance Protocols
- [x]  Both A and B
- [ ]  None of these

    


---
## Terms used in finance

## Some General Terms in finance
**Liquidation** - The act of turning assets into cash is called liquidation. The assets held by an entity in the form of cash are called liquid assets. The ability of an asset to be converted into cash is generally referred to as Liquidability.

**Credit/FICO score** - A credit score from 300 to 850 depicts a consumer’s credibility. It is based on credit history, timely loan repayments, etc. The higher the credit score, The more likely you are to get a better loan offer.

**Collateral** - Asset against which something is borrowed.

**Interest rate** - The part of the loan that is charged as interest to the borrower. The rate of premium paid over the actual amount borrowed.

**Return of investment** - The portion of the investment provided as an incentive for providing liquidity or letting your assets be borrowed is called the rate of returns.

**Over-collateralization** - When the value of the collateral provided supersedes the value of assets borrowed, It is called over-collateralization.

**Financial solvency** - The Ability of an entity to meet its long-term debts and other financial obligations.

**Borrowing capacity** - The maximum amount an entity can borrow without compromising its financial solvency.

**APY** - APY stands for Annual Percentage Yield. It is the total amount of money, i.e., the return of investment earned by a bank account in a year.

**APR** - APR stands for Annual Percentage Rate. It refers to the interest generated by the sum lent or borrowed in a year.

**Inflation** - It is the rate of rise in prices of goods and services.

**Mortgage** - It is collateral produced in the loans taken for housing, Where the collateral is the real estate 
itself. It is basically an agreement between the lender and borrower that allows the lender to take ownership of 
the property in case of default in repayment by the borrower.

**Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio** - Often used in mortgage assessment. It is an assessment of lending risk that lenders 
examine before approving a mortgage. Often used in mortgage lending in order to determine the amount to be put in a 
down payment and whether a lender will extend credit to a borrower. It is to be noted that lower LTVs are more 
favorable to the lenders. LTV = (Mortgage amount / Appraised property value)


    


---
## Evaluation





##### What is the act of turning assets into cash called?  

- [x]  Liquidation
- [ ]  Mortgage
- [ ]  Inflation
- [ ]  Financial Solvency





##### Asset against which loan is taken is called:
  

- [ ]  Liquidity
- [ ]  APR
- [x]  Collateral
- [ ]  None of these





##### Mortgage refers to collateral produced in which field?  

- [ ]  Technology
- [ ]  Jewellery
- [x]  Real estate
- [ ]  None of these





##### APR stands for:
  

- [x]  Annual Percentage Rate
- [ ]  Annual Property Yield
- [ ]  Annual Percapita Yield
- [ ]  Annual Percentage Yield

    


---
## Lending and Borrowing in Traditional Finance

### Principle
Lenders deposit their money in banks. The bank then uses this money and provides loans to borrowers for some rate of interest. The lenders are compensated with interest for their contribution.
The difference in APR provided to lenders and borrowers is the bank's revenue.

### Working      
* They run on a trust-based/credibility-based system calcuated by FICO score.
* Involves multiple agreements and paperwork. 
* On getting sanctioned, The loan must be repaid along with interest within the period of the loan.
* Usually, the repayment period varies from one to seven years.

### Fees
* **Application fee** : For the process of applying for a loan.
* **Processing fee** : For the processing/sanctioning of a loan.
* **Origination fee** : The cost of securing a loan.
* **Annual fee** : A yearly fee that must be paid to the lender.
* **Late fee** : The fee paid on late pay
* **Prepayment fee** : The cost of paying a loan off early.

### Advantages  

* **Heavily regulated** - Though there is a possibility of scams, there are regulatory bodies whose job is to protect the consumer and stakeholders.      
* **Accountability** - The possibility of your assets getting locked without return is next to impossible.
* **Accessibility** - Banks have a well-developed supply chain.


### Disadvantages        
* **Inefficient** - Banks spend large sums of money to setup fancy buildings and offices, and the workforce in banks 
consisting primarily of people is prone to inefficiency and burnout.  Not to forget the process of loans is an 
extensively time-consuming process with a lot of paperwork.

* **Transparency and Returns** - The banks do not disclose their profits and margins to the general public. Banks 
often offer paltry returns to the lender in comparison to other investment opportunities. Note that the lesser the 
returns offered to the lender, more the profit margin for the banks. One can see how this can be problematic. 
      
* **Lack of innovation** - The banking sector has been acting on more-or-less the same principles and workings 
without too many changes in the last 10 or so years.


    


---
## Evaluation





##### Which of these is (are) advantage(s) of Traditional finance?  

- [ ]  Heaviy monitoring and regulations
- [ ]  Accessibility
- [x]  Both A and B
- [ ]  None of these





##### Fees levied on customer for early repayment of loan is called:
  

- [x]  Prepayment fee
- [ ]  Annual fee
- [ ]  Application fee
- [ ]  None of these





##### What measure do banks use to determine credibility of a customer?  

- [ ]  SAT Score
- [x]  FICO Score
- [ ]  Number of loans borrowed
- [ ]  None of these





##### Which of these is a disadvantage to Traditional finance?  

- [ ]  Lack of transparency
- [ ]  Low efficiency
- [ ]  Lack of innovation
- [x]  All of these

    


---
## Lending and Borrowing in DeFi

The financial organizations and protocols in the blockchain that work on a decentralized version of traditional finance are called DeFi organizations. 

### Principle
* Same as the traditional lending and borrowing system: the borrower puts up collateral to be able to borrow, and the lender gets compensated for sharing his resources
* An intermediary is absent.
* No concept of credit or trust.

### Working      
* The protocol maintains a "liquidity pool" where all lenders' assets (liquidity) get pooled.
* The borrowers ask for a loan by "over collateralizing" the assets they own in return for the assets they want.
* The lenders are compensated for their resources by providing them with crypto assets, primarily the DeFi protocol's crypto coins.
* Since DeFi is decentralized, The changes made in the protocol are often decided by voting.

### Fees
There are no fees clipped onto the borrower. The borrower is simply to pay back the loan with interest.


### Advantages      
* **Speed** - DeFi lending platforms are made possible by blockchain technology and the rules for lending and borrowing 
are encoded into the Smart Contract. This helps to expedite the process as there is no human interaction required and 
the actions are performed instantaneously. The majority of services provided by DeFi platforms are available 24x7.       

* **Open** - No lengthy processes, assessments, and paperwork go into applying for a loan. All you need is a crypto wallet.

* **Immutability** - Blockchain's decentralized architecture ensures that the data it contains cannot be tampered with. 


### Disadvantages      
* **Taxes** -The user has to maintain their record for tax purposes, and it varies from region to region, causing much confusion. 

* **Volatility** -The Crypto market is highly volatile.

* **Tech failures and hacks** - Tech failures have caused a substantial quantity of assets to be locked up in a smart contract.


    


---
## Evaluation





##### Which of these is (are) advantage(s) of Decentralized finance?  

- [ ]  Efficiency
- [ ]  Flexibility
- [ ]  Programmability
- [x]  All of these





##### DeFi stands for:
  

- [x]  Decentralized Finance
- [ ]  Deprecated Function
- [ ]  Decentralized Findings
- [ ]  None of these





##### What kind of loan application fees are levied onto the customer in DeFi?  

- [ ]  Processing fee
- [ ]  Annual Fee
- [ ]  PrePayment fee
- [x]  None of these





##### Which of these is a disadvantage to DeFi loans?  

- [ ]  High rates of return
- [ ]  Immutability
- [x]  Volatility
- [ ]  Efficiency

    


---
## Differences in Traditional and Decentralized Finance

| Traditional Finance                                                                                                                                                                                      | Decentralized Finance                                                                                      |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Traditional financial institutions are built on hierarchical foundations. They work to satisfy the interests of the apex of the hierarchy.                                                               | DeFi's structure is decentralized, and there is no ultimate governing body.              |
| In traditional finance the bank or some other financial institution acts as an intermediary between the lender and the buyer. It makes profits off of the difference in rates of interest it specifies. | DeFi has no intermediary, and the transaction follows a peer-to-peer structure or peer-protocol-peer structure with no central authority                            |
| Banks have an extensive process of checking the borrower's eligibility. They have lengthy Application and sanctioning. They also levy fees on these processes.                                           | In DeFi, however, it is seamless, and often the borrower only needs to have a crypto wallet to get a loan. |
| In Traditional finance, we do not over-collateralize. We use an asset as collateral to get assets against it.                                                                                            | However, In DeFi, the idea of over-collateralization is adopted to protect againt vollatility of assets                                           |
| The rate of returns in traditional finance is paltry.                                                                                                                                                    | On average DeFi lending offers much more return on investment than traditional lending.                    |


    


---
## Evaluation





##### The main difference in the structure of Traditional and decentralized finance is
  

- [ ]  The presence of collaterization for borrowing
- [x]  The presence of a hierarchy
- [ ]  The interest paid on loans borrowed
- [ ]  None of these





##### The intermediaries present in Tradtional and Decentralized Finance are
  

- [ ]  The Bank
- [ ]  Lending & Borrowing Protocol & Liquidity Pools
- [x]  Both A and B
- [ ]  None of these





##### In which of these two systems does the borrower need to undergo lenghty processes to apply for a loan?  

- [ ]  Traditional Finance
- [x]  Decentralized/Crypto Finance
- [ ]  Both of these
- [ ]  None of these





##### Overcollateralization is largely adopted by:
  

- [ ]  Traditional financial instituitions
- [x]  DeFi Protocols
- [ ]  Both of these
- [ ]  None of these

    


---
## Your Info





| Label | Type | Required |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---- |
| Nick Name        | PublicShortInput   |  true    |




    


---
## Footer
This is the course header. This will be added on top of every page. Go to [DoDAO.io](https://www.dodao.io) to know more.

## Best AAVE Resources
V3 Videos
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l5RKksbi8e8
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhuD6LnxMLE

V2
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vgOnZkjifAs
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMAMvKc-O2s
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzY9zFslRp0
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9k-D57Mi-Qk
- Aave: Developer 101 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WPG7T1dFLxQ

Cetora(Many developer videos) - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4DzjIwy_5afMxSI4mOpLHw/videos
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LzaS8IiqnPY

- Aave v3 contracts with The3D | Solidity Fridays https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l5RKksbi8e8
    
